README.md, before:

# Full Stack Web Development - Milestone Project 1

### Online Resume

- **Repo:** 

    https://github.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume

- **Live Site:** 

    https://paul34913.github.io/msp1-online-resume/

### Introduction

This is the website for my online resume as part of milestone project 1 for my full stack web development course with Code Institute. It is designed to be responsive and accessible on a range of devices, making it easy to navigate for potential employers, fellow students, tutors, or anyone else who may be interested in my information.

![Website Mockup](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/mockup.png "Website Mockup")

## User Experience (UX)

-   ### User stories

    -   #### First Time Visitor Goals

        1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the individual.
        2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.
        3. As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for references or testimonials, and understand more about the individuals strengths. I also want to locate their social media links in order to connect with them.

    -   #### Returning Visitor Goals

        1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to spend time reading blog entries.
        2. As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the individual with any questions I may have.

    -   #### Frequent User Goals

        1. As a Frequent User, I want to find information about new and/or improved skills.
        2. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new portfolio entries to view current work.
        3. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new blog posts.

-   ### Design
    -   #### Colour Scheme
        -   The sites theme consists of a white background, contrasted by black bars and trims, with the sections alternating between black and white. Red and blue have been added to compliment the theme with regards to links and buttons, and red has been used with other bright and bold colors in the images to pop against the background.
    -   #### Typography
        -   I have used the "True Bold" font for the hero image header, it compliments "Exo" which has been used for the rest of the site with Sans Serif as a backup. It gives the site a modern and clean feel, and helps to provide a professional looking layout.
    -   #### Imagery
        -   For the hero image I have created a large image with bright popping colors against a darker background and used thick edges to highlight the image and accompanying hero text header. This makes the header really pop and grab the attention of the user. Other images used have been created and styled to fit within their sections and carry through the theme of the site.

*   ### Wireframes

    These are the wireframes for the mobile, tablet and desktop versions of my website. These designs were created prior to the website development and as such, are likely to change throughout the process. Please click the pictures to get a full screen view.

    Click the images for a full screen view.
    
    ![Mobile Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-mobile.png)
    </br>
    </br>
    ![Tablet Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-tablet.png)
    </br>
    </br>
    ![Desktop Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-desktop.png)
    </br>
    </br>

## Features

-   Responsive on all device sizes

-   Interactive elements

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Bootstrap 4.2.1](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.2/getting-started/download/)
    - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'Exo' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
1. [Font Awesome 4.7.0](https://fontawesome.com/v4.7/)
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
1. [VS Code Web Version](https://vscode.dev/)
    - VS code web version was used within Gitpod to create and edit the content of the website.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
1. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.
1. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - Balsamiq was used to create the [wireframes](https://github.com/) during the design process.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

-   [W3C Markup Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/#validate_by_input) - [Results](https://github.com/)
-   [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/#validate_by_input) - [Results](https://github.com/)

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

-   #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the individual.

        1. Upon entering the site, users are automatically greeted with a clean and easily readable navigation bar at the top of the page, enabling the user to go to the page of their choice. Underneath the navbar is an eye catching hero image that clearly defines the purpose of the site.
        2. The main points are made immediately with the hero image.
        3. Also at there very top of the page, there is a call to action button along with social links.

    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.

        1. The site has been designed to be fluid and never to entrap the user. The site is presented in a structured order that prioritises how the information is displayed.
        2. The site uses a fixed navigation bar so that the user can navigate the site at any moment with a single click.
        3. The navbar reduces to "essential" links for the mobile version, I chose not to use a hamburger menu as this would mean an extra click would be required to reach the destination, every time.

    3. As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for references or testimonials to understand more about the individuals strengths. I also want to locate their social media links in order to connect with them.
        1. At the top of the page in the navigation bar, the user is immediatley presented with a link to reach the testimonials section,social links are also presented at the very top of the page using easy to see icons.
        2. The social links are also presented in the footer of the page for good measure.
        3. At the bottom of the "Contact Me" page, the user is told underneath the form, that alternatively they can contact the individual on social media and highlights the links to them.

-   #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to spend time reading blog entries.

        1. These are clearly linked in the navigation bar.
        2. The user will be directed to a page with archived blogs available to read.

    2. As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the individual with any questions I may have.

        1. The navigation bar clearly highlights the "Contact Me" Page.
        2. Here the user can fill out the form on the page, or are told that alternatively they can message the individual on social media.
        3. The footer contains links to the individuals Instagram, Linkedin, Git Hub and Slack pages as well as the individuals email.
        4. Whichever link they click, it will open up in a new tab to ensure that the user can easily get back to the website.
        5. The email button is set up to automatically open up your email app and autofill there email address in the "To" section.

-   #### Frequent User Goals

    1. As a Frequent User, I want to find information about new and/or improved skills.

        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the navbar link.
        2. For a mobile user already comfortable with the website layout, the section is a short swipe down the page.

    2. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new portfolio entries to view current work.

        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the portfolio link.

    3. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new blog posts.
        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the blog link.
        2. Upon landing on the blog page, blogs will be displayed in chronological order, beginning with the newest post.
        3. A call to action button has been created in order for users to sign up for newsletters, they will be notified of new blog entries by e-mail.

### Further Testing

-   The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
-   The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone7, and i-Pad.
-   A large amount of testing was done to ensure that all pages were linking correctly.
-   Friends and family members were asked to review the site and documentation to point out any bugs and/or user experience issues.

## Changelog

**04/12/21**

-   Created repo from boilerplate
-   Worked on README.md in preparation for initial mentor meeting
-   Created wireframe for site layout

**05/12/21**

-   Added contact button to top bar
-   Added social-links to top-bar
-   Added responsive hero image
-   Added responsive navbar and links
-   Added Google Fonts "Evo"
-   Completed Header
-   Completed responsive general page template
-   HTML validated with no errors on https://validator.w3.org/nu/#textarea
-   CSS validated with no errors on https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator

**06/12/21**

-   Meeting with mentor
-   Revision and improvement of README.md
-   Updated desktop wireframe
-   Created wireframes for tablet and mobile   

**07/12/21**

-   Revision and improvement of README.md

**08/12/21**

-   Revision and improvement of README.md
-   Created about me section (not responsive)
-   Created about me section image.
-   About me section now fully responsive.
-   Fixed paddings and margins

## Known Bugs

**05/12/21**

-   Social Link Alignment

Alignment of links is slightly out when viewing on Safari mobile (iPhone7) and Firefox mobile (iphone 7), need to investigate.

Fix:

Have added a top padding of 2px to push the links down slightly.

-   Firefox Mobile Night Mode

Night mode on Firefox mobile (iphone 7) is causing the hero image to scroll on top of the navbars instead of behind, will investigate z-index and position of bars. As the navbar colors have now flipped there is also a 1px white border between the navbar and hero image, need to investigate padding.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
    - Alternatively Click [Here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/) for a GIF demonstrating the process starting from Step 2.
3. Scroll down the Settings page until you locate the "GitHub Pages" Section.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
5. The page will automatically refresh.
6. Scroll back down through the page to locate the now published site [link](https://github.com) in the "GitHub Pages" section.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
```

7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
```

Click [Here](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository#cloning-a-repository-to-github-desktop) to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

## Credits

### Code

-   [Bootstrap4](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/)
    </br>
    </br>
    Bootstrap Library used throughout the project mainly to make site responsive using the Bootstrap Grid System.

### Content

-   All content was written by the developer.

### Media

-   [Eagle Vector](http://getdrawings.com/eagle-vector-free-download#eagle-vector-free-download-6.png)
 
    Used in creation of hero image.
   
    [Spiderweb Image](http://getdrawings.com/eagle-vector-free-download#eagle-vector-free-download-6.png)

    Used in creation of hero image.
    
    https://www.pexels.com/@ellie-burgin-1661546
    
### Acknowledgements

-   My Sons, Thomas and James, for their help with testing the site on a variety of devices.

-   My Mentor [Dick Vlaanderen](https://github.com/dickvla), for continuous helpful feedback.

-   Tutor support at Code Institute, for being there in a flash when needed.

Commit message:

update: added dropdown menu to navbar

README.md, after:

# Full Stack Web Development - Milestone Project 1

### Online Resume

- **Repo:** 

    https://github.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume

- **Live Site:** 

    https://paul34913.github.io/msp1-online-resume/

### Introduction

This is the website for my online resume as part of milestone project 1 for my full stack web development course with Code Institute. It is designed to be responsive and accessible on a range of devices, making it easy to navigate for potential employers, fellow students, tutors, or anyone else who may be interested in my information.

![Website Mockup](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/mockup.png "Website Mockup")

## User Experience (UX)

-   ### User stories

    -   #### First Time Visitor Goals

        1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the individual.
        2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.
        3. As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for references or testimonials, and understand more about the individuals strengths. I also want to locate their social media links in order to connect with them.

    -   #### Returning Visitor Goals

        1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to spend time reading blog entries.
        2. As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the individual with any questions I may have.

    -   #### Frequent User Goals

        1. As a Frequent User, I want to find information about new and/or improved skills.
        2. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new portfolio entries to view current work.
        3. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new blog posts.

-   ### Design
    -   #### Colour Scheme
        -   The sites theme consists of a white background, contrasted by black bars and trims, with the sections alternating between black and white. Red and blue have been added to compliment the theme with regards to links and buttons, and red has been used with other bright and bold colors in the images to pop against the background.
    -   #### Typography
        -   I have used the "True Bold" font for the hero image header, it compliments "Exo" which has been used for the rest of the site with Sans Serif as a backup. It gives the site a modern and clean feel, and helps to provide a professional looking layout.
    -   #### Imagery
        -   For the hero image I have created a large image with bright popping colors against a darker background and used thick edges to highlight the image and accompanying hero text header. This makes the header really pop and grab the attention of the user. Other images used have been created and styled to fit within their sections and carry through the theme of the site.

*   ### Wireframes

    These are the wireframes for the mobile, tablet and desktop versions of my website. These designs were created prior to the website development and as such, are likely to change throughout the process. Please click the pictures to get a full screen view.

    Click the images for a full screen view.
    
    ![Mobile Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-mobile.png)
    </br>
    </br>
    ![Tablet Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-tablet.png)
    </br>
    </br>
    ![Desktop Wireframes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PAUL34913/msp1-online-resume/main/assets/images/wf-desktop.png)
    </br>
    </br>

## Features

-   Responsive on all device sizes

-   Interactive elements

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

1. [Bootstrap 4.2.1](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.2/getting-started/download/)
    - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts were used to import the 'Exo' font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
1. [Font Awesome 4.7.0](https://fontawesome.com/v4.7/)
    - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
1. [VS Code Web Version](https://vscode.dev/)
    - VS code web version was used within Gitpod to create and edit the content of the website.
1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
1. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.
1. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - Balsamiq was used to create the [wireframes](https://github.com/) during the design process.

## Testing

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate every page of the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

-   [W3C Markup Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/#validate_by_input) - [Results](https://github.com/)
-   [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/#validate_by_input) - [Results](https://github.com/)

### Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section

-   #### First Time Visitor Goals

    1. As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the individual.

        1. Upon entering the site, users are automatically greeted with a clean and easily readable navigation bar at the top of the page, enabling the user to go to the page of their choice. Underneath the navbar is an eye catching hero image that clearly defines the purpose of the site.
        2. The main points are made immediately with the hero image.
        3. Also at there very top of the page, there is a call to action button along with social links.

    2. As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate throughout the site to find content.

        1. The site has been designed to be fluid and never to entrap the user. The site is presented in a structured order that prioritises how the information is displayed.
        2. The site uses a fixed navigation bar so that the user can navigate the site at any moment with a single click.
        3. The navbar reduces to "essential" links for the mobile version, I chose not to use a hamburger menu as this would mean an extra click would be required to reach the destination, every time.

    3. As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for references or testimonials to understand more about the individuals strengths. I also want to locate their social media links in order to connect with them.
        1. At the top of the page in the navigation bar, the user is immediatley presented with a link to reach the testimonials section,social links are also presented at the very top of the page using easy to see icons.
        2. The social links are also presented in the footer of the page for good measure.
        3. At the bottom of the "Contact Me" page, the user is told underneath the form, that alternatively they can contact the individual on social media and highlights the links to them.

-   #### Returning Visitor Goals

    1. As a Returning Visitor, I want to spend time reading blog entries.

        1. These are clearly linked in the navigation bar.
        2. The user will be directed to a page with archived blogs available to read.

    2. As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the individual with any questions I may have.

        1. The navigation bar clearly highlights the "Contact Me" Page.
        2. Here the user can fill out the form on the page, or are told that alternatively they can message the individual on social media.
        3. The footer contains links to the individuals Instagram, Linkedin, Git Hub and Slack pages as well as the individuals email.
        4. Whichever link they click, it will open up in a new tab to ensure that the user can easily get back to the website.
        5. The email button is set up to automatically open up your email app and autofill there email address in the "To" section.

-   #### Frequent User Goals

    1. As a Frequent User, I want to find information about new and/or improved skills.

        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the navbar link.
        2. For a mobile user already comfortable with the website layout, the section is a short swipe down the page.

    2. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new portfolio entries to view current work.

        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the portfolio link.

    3. As a Frequent user, I want to check for new blog posts.
        1. The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the blog link.
        2. Upon landing on the blog page, blogs will be displayed in chronological order, beginning with the newest post.
        3. A call to action button has been created in order for users to sign up for newsletters, they will be notified of new blog entries by e-mail.

### Further Testing

-   The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
-   The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone7, and i-Pad.
-   A large amount of testing was done to ensure that all pages were linking correctly.
-   Friends and family members were asked to review the site and documentation to point out any bugs and/or user experience issues.

## Changelog

**04/12/21**

-   Created repo from boilerplate
-   Worked on README.md in preparation for initial mentor meeting
-   Created wireframe for site layout

**05/12/21**

-   Added contact button to top bar
-   Added social-links to top-bar
-   Added responsive hero image
-   Added responsive navbar and links
-   Added Google Fonts "Evo"
-   Completed Header
-   Completed responsive general page template
-   HTML validated with no errors on https://validator.w3.org/nu/#textarea
-   CSS validated with no errors on https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator

**06/12/21**

-   Meeting with mentor
-   Revision and improvement of README.md
-   Updated desktop wireframe
-   Created wireframes for tablet and mobile   

**07/12/21**

-   Revision and improvement of README.md

**08/12/21**

-   Revision and improvement of README.md
-   Created about me section (not responsive)
-   Created about me section image.
-   About me section now fully responsive.
-   Fixed about me section paddings and margins.
-   Added drop-down menu to navbar.
-   Styled drop-down menu.

## Known Bugs

**05/12/21**

-   Social Link Alignment

Alignment of links is slightly out when viewing on Safari mobile (iPhone7) and Firefox mobile (iphone 7), need to investigate.

Fix:

Have added a top padding of 2px to push the links down slightly.

-   Firefox Mobile Night Mode

Night mode on Firefox mobile (iphone 7) is causing the hero image to scroll on top of the navbars instead of behind, will investigate z-index and position of bars. As the navbar colors have now flipped there is also a 1px white border between the navbar and hero image, need to investigate padding.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
    - Alternatively Click [Here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/) for a GIF demonstrating the process starting from Step 2.
3. Scroll down the Settings page until you locate the "GitHub Pages" Section.
4. Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
5. The page will automatically refresh.
6. Scroll back down through the page to locate the now published site [link](https://github.com) in the "GitHub Pages" section.

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/)
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type `git clone`, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
```

7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
```

Click [Here](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository#cloning-a-repository-to-github-desktop) to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

## Credits

### Code

-   [Bootstrap4](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/)
    </br>
    </br>
    Bootstrap Library used throughout the project mainly to make site responsive using the Bootstrap Grid System.

-   [Dropdown-Menu](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19679982/how-to-make-bootstrap-3-dropdown-menu-working-for-no-js-user)
    </br>
    </br>
    Dropdown menu in navbar, found on stack overflow on the above link

### Content

-   All content was written by the developer.

### Media

-   [Eagle Vector](http://getdrawings.com/eagle-vector-free-download#eagle-vector-free-download-6.png)
 
    Used in creation of hero image.
   
    [Spiderweb Image](http://getdrawings.com/eagle-vector-free-download#eagle-vector-free-download-6.png)

    Used in creation of hero image.
    
    https://www.pexels.com/@ellie-burgin-1661546
    
### Acknowledgements

-   My Sons, Thomas and James, for their help with testing the site on a variety of devices.

-   My Mentor [Dick Vlaanderen](https://github.com/dickvla), for continuous helpful feedback.

-   Tutor support at Code Institute, for being there in a flash when needed.
